The authors would like to thank the referee for the detailed comments on the manuscript MN-16-2903-MJ, and the editor for helping with the submission. The original manuscript was divided into two parts as recommended by the referee. The first paper has been published under the title 'Topology and geometry of the dark matter web: a multistream view' (hereafter referred to as 'Paper1'). This is the second paper that deals with detection of dark matter haloes in multi-stream fields and preliminary analysis of these haloes. 

We address the comments pertaining to the this paper below. Corresponding changes in the draft are highlighted. 

1) Comments concerning presentation. 

1.1) Advice to present two separate papers:

RESPONSE: This draft exclusively deals with halo identification and comparisons with other halo finders. Sections 5 and 6.1 from MN-16-2903-MJ are included here. New sections are added for a comprehensive discussion of multi-stream haloes. 

1.2) The title of the manuscript.

RESPONSE: Title for this manuscript is chosen as `Dark matter haloes: a multi-stream view'. It refers to the content of the paper and relates to Paper1. 

1.3) Removal of the redundancies, and at the same time increase its transparency.

RESPONSE: Text is significantly changed in order to avoid redundancies. New sections/subsections (2, 4.1, 4.4) are created to separately dealt with for a clearer understanding.  


2) Comments on scientific aspects. (Comments 2.1, 2.9-2.12 specifically correspond to this draft. Rest were addressed in Paper1. 

2.1) Introduction and literature references on the cosmic web.

RESPONSE: Introduction is significantly altered. In addition to some of the key references mentioned by the referee, we have included new references on the status of halo-finding, and multi-streaming phenomena with the context of halo formation. 

2.9) Multistreaming and halo identification (section 5). The manuscript forwards the identification of haloes with the regions surrounding a maximum in the multistream field. While very interesting, and providing an altnernative means of identifying halos, the text in the manuscript does not stress or emphasize sufficiently strong what the advantages are with respect to more conventional schemes.

RESPONSE: New text added in Section 6 includes differences between halo finders. Some of the advantages are added in Section 7 (Discussion). Although we stress that this paper is about exploring regions with multi-stream maxima and relating them to potential DM halo sites, rather than a comprehensive comparison of halo finders which we intend to address in a separate paper. 

2.10) Section 5 consists largely of a set of numerical results providing circumstantial evidence underpinning the identification of haloes on the basis of the multistream criterion. I am missing a solid dynamical reasoning of why this would be a reasonable means of identifying haloes. A concrete example for the contrary may illustrate why an argument would be in place: when describing a collapsing spherical halo (with a reasonable initial density profile), shell crossing would not happen until the final moment when the density reaches infinity at the very core. For most of its existence the mass accumulation would resemble a contracting mass concentration that would not have undergone shell crossing, while obviously identifiable as a gravitationally bound concentrated mass structure.

RESPONSE: Section 2 is added to discuss the dynamical evolution of gravitational clustering in phase-space. We start with a 1-D N-body simulation and extend our reasoning to 3D collapse. 

In phase-space, the collapses happen at a small region first, and this multi-stream region (bounded by the first caustic surfaces) grows in volume, and increases the number of spirals (and increase in caustics) at the same time (shown in newly added Figure 1). This is in contrast with the spherical top-hat toy model of halo formation where the shell crossing would not happen until the final moment of the collapse of the entire halo into a point-like singularity. The collapse of an isolated, spherically symmetric density peak is a very exceptional case, because every spherical shell feels only the force due to interior mass until it collapses into the caustic region. The collapse of the real peak proceeds in the field generated by the mass distribution - in both the mass within the forming halo, and the mass outside the halo. 

The 'core' in a collision-less dark matter collapse is region where a multi-stream region is first formed due to caustic formation. This is conceptually similar to a shell crossing. However in the collapsing phase-space spirals, there are successive caustic formations that follow the first shell crossing, and they are not limited to the halo cores. 

We have discussed the above in detail in section 2 with new illustrations Figure 1 and 2. 

2.11) Halo identification and comparison: to understand the nature of using the multistream field towards halo identification, in comparison to the AHF and FOF halo finder, one would like to see not only a comparison of global properties such as the mass spectrum (fig. 16), but also individual halo comparisons. 

[a.] it would be good to compare not only mass of the haloes, but also the radii and, in particular, the concentration of the haloes that were identified, as well as other relevant dynamical properties (binding energy, virial radius, etc.).
[b.] the one specific comparison of individual halos found by the multistream formalism, AHF and FOF is figure 16. The figure is quite confusing, and it would be better to present this in three different frames, each corresponding to the particles identified to belong to the halo by the different identifiers. 
[c.] Figure 17 is also important for an assessment of the workings of the different halo identification procedures with respect to individual halos. It would be good to expand the size of these frames. The discussion at the end of sect. 5.3, pg. 13, would profit from a more in depth and halo-to-halo discussion (ie. examples more clearly shown).

RESPONSE: Discussion of a large halo simulatenously detected by all 3 finders is done in Section 6. Figure 16 ( Figure 11 in the new draft) is presented in three different frames as recommended by the referee. Figure 17 (Figure 12 in the new draft) is shown with bigger frames. 

We do not employ virialization or any unbinding procedure after the identification of halo sites. The multi-stream haloes are not spherical, and we do not assume that the  distance of the farthest particle, or rms distance from the halo-centre as the radius of the halo. These distances may result in including the low multi-stream regions (even nstr = 1) within the halo boundaries, which is undesirable in our context of haloes. We agree that some of the halo finder comparisons may be very interesting, like the turn-around distances, velocity profiles and binding energy etc. But the authors feel that these studies are out of scope of this paper, and should be addressed separately in a halo-finder comparison-type paper.  


2.12) When assessing the Venn diagrams in Figure 14, the overlap region between the AHF and FOF halo identifications reveal that in most of the cases the AHF halos are a subclass of the FOF identified halos: the number of AHF halos not identified by FOF only represents a minor ridge of the AHF circle. The situation is quite different for the multistream halos, both for 128^3 and 256^3 3 halos there is a substantial fraction of multistream halos not identified as AHF or FOF. It would be good to have this more extensively commented and discussed on.

RESPONSE: Major difference between mass fraction of multi-stream haloes with FOF/AHF are rooted in definitions of haloes. Specifically, exclusion of particles in single-streaming void, saddle regions between neighbouring local multi-stream maxima (which may be detected as sub-haloes in AHF/FOF, but as separate regions in our framework), and finally the convex criteria for multistream haloes cause a few differences in mass fraction of haloes.  

New text is added in Section 6 corresponding to the Venn diagram to include the above discussion. We also include extensive comments on pairwise halo-mass fractions for 3 halo finders, and difference between 2 simulations.   


3) Other changes: 

Changes are highlighted in yellow, except for the new sections. The abstract, Section 2, and subsections 4.1 and 4.4 are completely new.

Subsection 4.1 highlights the results of Paper1 that important our halo identification scheme: Geometrical signature of the multistream field via Hessian matrix. 

Subsection 4.4 is based on discussions and comments by Mark Neyrinck. It includes the variation of min(nstr) threshold and what it does to halo detection.

New illustrations: Figure 1 and 2 for showing halo multi-stream environment. Figure 7 for section 4.4. Figure 9 from first paper is added as Figure 5. 

Discussion of smoothing the multi-stream field in the context of halo finding in included in beginning of section 4.3. 

Venn diagram (Figure 13) is also edited for clarity, and correct values are shown. The circles are more clearly shown. 

In table 3, the Local maxima and minima of nstr ar written with a newer notation n_{str}^high or n_{str}^low. These notations are updated inthe text as well. New notation for halo mass fraction f_H is also used in section 6. 

Text is Section 3 is altered. It includes a brief discription of the simulation parameters, the analysis tools - FOF and AMIGA, and summarizes calulation of the multi-stream field. 
